# scDaPars: Dynamic Analysis of Alternative Polyadenylation from Single-Cell RNA-Seq
Yipeng Gao, Wei Li 2020-08-22

## Latest News
>2020-08-22: 
- Version 0.0.1 is released!

## Introduction

scDaPars is a bioinformatics algorithm to accurately quantify Alternative Polyadenylation (APA) events at both single-cell and single-gene resolution using standard scRNA-seq data. 

Step.1 scDaPars first takes scRNA-seq genome coverage data (bedgraph format) as input and forms a linear regression model to jointly infer the exact location of proximal poly(A) sites (Current Version of scDaPars do not support this function, raw PDUI values are calulated seperately using [DaPars2](https://github.com/3UTR/DaPars2/)).

Step.2 scDaPars constructs a nearest neighbor graph based on the sparse APA matrix generated in step.1 to identify a pool of candidate neighboring cells that have similar APA profiles.

Step.3 scDaPars uses a non-negative least square (NNLS) regression model to refine neighboring cells and impute PDUIs of dropout genes in each cell.

We welcome any suggestions on the package. For technical problems, please report to [Issues](https://github.com/YiPeng-Gao/scDaPars/issues). For suggestions and comments, please contact Yipeng (yipeng.gao@bcm.edu) or Dr. Wei Li (wei.li@uci.edu).
## Installation

The package is not on CRAN yet. For installation please use the following codes in ```R```

```
install.packages("devtools")
library(devtools)

install_github("YiPeng-Gao/scDaPars")
```
## Quick Start
The imputation steps of ```scDaPars``` takes the APA matrix from step.1 as input and in the simplest case, the imputation can be done with one single function ```scDaPars```:

```
scDaPars(raw_PDUI_file,         # full path of the raw PDUI matrix generated by step1 of scDaPars
         out_dir,               # full path of the output directory
         filter_gene_thre,      # the percent of cells a gene's APA must be detected in step.1
         filter_cell_thre)      # the percent of gene APA a cell must be detected in step.1
```
